---
permalink: /
title: "About me"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

This is Fengshi's webpage!

This is Fengshi Tian, a junior student majoring Microelectronics at Fudan University.

I am broadly interested in Electronic Engineering. I’ve taken many related courses and built a solid background in this field. I really enjoy some of my major courses which are both practical and interesting, and my major GPA is 3.67 / 4.00. "Mathematical Analysis" and "Linear Algebra" opened the door of advanced mathematics for me, which allowed me to lay a solid foundation in mathematics while enjoying the beauty of it. In my sophomore year, I participated in the National University Mathematics Competition and won the national third prize. "Analog Circuit" and "Foundation of Digital Logic" made me a qualified analog and digital circuit designer, and proficient in the use of mainstream EDA software, such as Vivado, OrCAD Capture and Quartus II. In the one-year "Analog and Digital Circuit Experiment" course, I alone completed a series of system-level circuit designs from scratch, which can be directly put into use, such as: ECG signal monitoring system, Six-digit frequency measuring instrument and FPGA-based athlete response time measurement circuit, etc. "Machine learning" led me to the world to artificial intelligence. In the final project of the course, I independently designed a convolutional neural network system that can be used as an automatic bread cash register. This system can be deployed and put into use directly on a Raspberry Pi. I believe that what I have learned and the abilities I have developed in the course can support my further research in the future.

Merely getting knowledge from class is not enough for me. In 2018, I joined the Processor and SoC Design Institute, State Key Laboratory of ASIC and Systems, Fudan University by applying for the “Tengfei Science and Technology Innovation Program”. There I severed as a research assistant under the supervision of Prof. Xiaoyong Xue to carry out research on neuromorphic computing algorithm and its hardware implementation. In the previous survey, I investigated the biological basis of neuromorphic computing from the perspective of neurobiology. Then I researched, reimplemented and tried to improve the classic SNN algorithms-Tempotron, Spikeprop, SEFRON and STDP. After that, I studied the SNN neuron circuit design and FPGA hardware implementation. So far, we have implemented a convolutional neural network based on HLS on FPGA and applied for four patents related to neuron circuit design. Due to our outstanding performance in "Tengfei Program", I was selected to participate in Xiyuan Program of Fudan University and received FDUROP fund with another team member. This program was also rated as excellent in the final review a week ago. My goal for the coming year is to continue this research, and finally build a breakthrough SNN hardware system, and publish the relevant results in academic conferences or journals.

During that period, I also carried out a year of research in the field of BME under the supervision of Prof. Wei Chen in the Center for Intelligent Medical Electronics (CIME), Fudan University, trying to build a substance detection system with intelligent identification function and some interesting embedded products for smart-health. This experience began from the "Engineering Mathematics" course where Prof. Wei Chen was the course lecturer. She introduced to us the research topics in CIME, which exposed me to the field of biomedical engineering. Since I achieved 96/100 in the final exam (top of the class; B + on the transcript due to postponed exams because of illness during final exam week.), I was able to enter Prof. Chen ’s group. There, I mainly participated in three scientific research projects, and I learned a lot of practical knowledge and skills, such as: conducting experiments in the complex environments in hospitals, organizing long-period multiple experiments, scientific research innovation and product transformation methods, etc. These experiences have not only allowed me to gain academic advancement, but also improved my organizational skills. These are things that can hardly be learned in class.
In addition to laboratory research, I am also the vice president of the Electronic Makers Association of Fudan University, leading the members to carry out intelligent electronic system design activities. In August 2019, I led a team of five members to apply for the Industry-Academic Cooperation Collaborative Education Program of the Ministry of Education and received funding from Google. Our project is aimed at social welfare undertakings-removing floating garbage on the water. We plan to design a Solar Automatic Garbage Grab Boat that uses the YOLO algorithm to identify and collect garbage on the water. The drive design is based on solar power and is therefore very environmentally friendly. At present, we have completed a prototype system based on Raspberry Pi for automatic garbage identification and automatic driving guidance, which has been verified on a land-based experimental platform. The next step is to use Hikvision's depth camera and a catamaran to conduct further experiments in a complex water environment and optimize the control algorithm.

My future goal is to become an electronics scientist or engineer. I will always focus on the field of electronic engineering and chase the most cutting-edge technology. 
